---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "rabbitmq_exchange Data Source - terraform-provider-rabbitmq"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Use this data source to access information about an existing exchange.
---

# rabbitmq_exchange (Data Source)

Use this data source to access information about an existing _exchange_.

!> This data source is deprecated. Migrate this data source to a dedicated exchange data source. This data source will be removed in the next major version of the provider.

## Example Usage

```terraform
# Read the exchange settings
data "rabbitmq_exchange" "example" {
  name  = "myexchange"
  vhost = "myvhost"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) The name of the exchange.

### Optional

- `vhost` (String) The vhost to read the exchange in. Defaults to `/`.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `settings` (List of Object) The settings of the exchange. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--settings))

<a id="nestedatt--settings"></a>
### Nested Schema for `settings`

Read-Only:

- `alternate_exchange` (String) If messages to this exchange cannot otherwise be routed, send them to the alternate exchange named here.
- `arguments` (Map of String) Additional key/value settings for the exchange.
- `auto_delete` (Boolean) If `true`, the exchange will delete itself after at least one queue or exchange has been bound to this one, and then all queues or exchanges have been unbound.
- `durable` (Boolean) Whether the exchange survives server restarts.
- `internal` (Boolean) If `true`, clients cannot publish to this exchange directly. It can only be used with exchange to exchange bindings.
- `type` (String) The type of exchange. Possible values are `direct`, `fanout`, `headers` and `topic`.
